was on the horizon we've played a
certain way for the last five or six
years all right we got it we got a
change right now the marks gets beat
we're gonna be the first team to get
beat you go straight this has become a
world sport that's what Michael and that
dream team accomplished
we better respect the people we play or
we're gonna be in trouble
three weeks
do you have a sense that people are
saying well it was this might be the
team that came from the goal yeah we are
mean we got a lot of dollars on there
just for the simple fact that we're
young timid I don't think a lot of you
would think that that young players who
do so we got a griot approval so we got
to get ready as soon as possible because
teams have been practicing for the last
two weeks last month so it's up to us to
concentrate every night would go out
every day we go out and give it all and
in the very first game against Puerto
Rico all of their worst fears were
realized
Marion can't get it to go good effort
from Carmelo Anthony
not in any way at all intimidated by the
talent of the United States USA Vitas
Sally a stunning result losing to Puerto
Rico was a shock to shook up Americans
of course that team I think to this day
doesn't believe or understand what
happened to it
this is a nightmare right now for the
United States to go over there you know
start off you know first game you lose
about 40 points to Puerto Rico
you know just no ball down here from
there so it was you know it was
devastating it was you know humiliating
it was frustrating and though they would
advance to the medal round they would
ultimately lose to Argentina there's the
explanation point for Argentina look at
the joy on
two phases
United States I think we let our country
there I think we let ourselves down the
United States will not win gold
so for the first time since the NBA
players participated
I think in 92 we had that Supreme Team
since then the world kept coming up you
know I don't think the guys in 96 would
have won this year the guys in 2000
wouldn't know won they would not have
won this tournament they wouldn't have
done any better than these guys then it
hurt to see us lose because they weren't
just assumed we were losing every
basketball person in our country takes
it personal
we're in there together
sometimes you're doing something it
comes at a time when somebody else needs
it too it's kind of crazy but way it's
it's kind of like our country needs a
team to cheer for and that's what I see
it I don't know if you feel it or see it
but it's happening and you should be so
damn excited about I don't care how much
you do your MBA careers so much I didn't
as a collegiate coach
it can never be this big
after falling short of the gold medal in
2004 USA basketball hired long time
basketball executive Jerry Colangelo as
managing director in hopes of turning
the program around it hurt me the idea
that we had lost our position in the
world hierarchy if you will in terms of
basketball some of you had a bad
experience a few years ago this is a
whole different time it's a whole
different place we're going to make
things different ville Angelo's first
order of business was to hire Duke
University head coach Mike Chevy a
former dream team assistant to be the
head coach well the first thing is I was
a great sense of pride and honor to be
given this opportunity and and then
write with it was was a lot of
responsibility and so what do we need to
do to make sure that we can be
successful on our watch Colangelo plan
was to create a national team selecting
24 players who would make a three-year
commitment to the program the roster
would be comprised of superstars and
role players alike
the team began their journey together in
July of 2006 in Las Vegas where they
would be preparing to play in the FIBA
World Championship later that summer in
Japan we'll have a good time we'll do
all that stuff while we're doing it you
all and I don't know everything we
especially don't know what each other
knows that's what practice is about is
all getting on the same page
well the first summer we are with this
team you're trying to create a culture
good left on the Left what
yep yep and that culture is not so much
X's and O's its core values get up
bright get up bright uh-huh why did they
think I'm most surprised about is how
well you talk to one another are you
guys interacting well in between drills
there's a really good spirit that needs
to be developed you got it just keep
developing it was clear from the
beginning that the goal was not only to
win but to win the right way
that play right there that's sports and
Hilah and that's what everybody in this
country wants to see from us
as a group I felt we had each other's
back
we were acceptant of roles God God we're
in there for the common cause no
attitude problems in fact just the
opposite the guys were we're really
working hard I see you I see you I